README.md, before:

# TextHighlighter

TextHighlighter allows you to highlight text on web pages. Just select it!

## Getting started

### Using the library as an npm package

Install the library by running:

```bash
$ npm install text-highlighter
```

Then you can use it like so:

```javascript
import TextHighlighter from 'text-highlighter';

// Example using a React ref if you are building a react application.
const highlighter = new TextHighlighter(sandboxRef.current);

// Example using an element accessed directly from the DOM.
const highlighter = new TextHighlighter(document.getElementById("sandbox"));
```
#### Supporting IE11

One thing to note when using this library as a package, you are responsible for providing the polyfills
for the core JavaScript features outlined in the latest ECMAScript specifications.

Within this library we use features such as Array.prototype.includes and Array.prototype.find
which aren't support by IE11 without polyfills.

You will need to install core-js and regenerator-runtime.

```bash
npm install --save core-js regenerator-runtime
```

You can add the following two lines at the *BEGINNING* of your application's entrypoint file (index.js or main.js):
```javascript
import "core-js/stable";
import "regenerator-runtime/runtime";
```

### Using the library as a script file

Clone down this repository, checkout to the release tag representing the version you would like to use. 
(2.x.x + only, this won't work for 1.x.x, please refer to the documentation provided with 1.x.x releases)

Ensure grunt is installed globally:
```bash
npm install -g grunt
```

Build the minified version of the library using the following command:
```bash
grunt build
```

Copy the script file from `build/prod/TextHighlighter.min.js` to the head section of your web page:

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="TextHighlighter.min.js"></script>
```

And use it!

```javascript
var hltr = new TextHighlighter(document.body);
```

## Features

* Highlighting of selected text.
* Highlighting all occurrences of given text (find & highlight).
* Removing highlights.
* Selecting highlight color.
* Serialization & deserialization.
* Focusing & deselecting overlapping highlights.
* Works well in iframes.
* Keeps DOM clean.
* No dependencies (apart from core-js and regenerator-runtime for IE11). No jQuery or other libraries needed.

## Using the library

You can find the [API reference here](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/doc/index.html)
which details the interface for the highlighter and the utility functionality that you could also make use
of in your project.

### Simple example

```javascript
import TextHighlighter from 'text-highlighter';
import { isDuplicate } from './utils'; 
import highlightsApi from './services/highlights-api';

class ArticleView {
  constructor(data) {
    this.data = data;
    const pageElement = document.getElementById("article");
    this.highlighter = new TextHighlighter(
      pageElement, 
      {
        version: "independencia",
        onBeforeHighlight: this.onBeforeHighlight,
        onAfterHighlight: this.onAfterHighlight,
        onRemoveHighlight: this.onRemoveHighlight
    });
  }

  onBeforeHighlight = (range) => {
    return !isDuplicate(range)
  }

  onRemoveHighlight = (highlightElement) => {
    const proceed = window.confirm("Are you sure you want to remove this highlight?");
    return proceed;
  }

  onAfterHighlight = (range, descriptors, timestamp) => {
    // Add an ID to the class list to identify each highlight 
    // (A highlight can be represented by a group of elements in the DOM).
    const uniqueId = `hlt-${Math.random()
      .toString(36)
      .substring(2, 15) +
      Math.random()
      .toString(36)
      .substring(2, 15)}`;
    
    const descriptorsWithIds = descriptors.map(descriptor => {
      const [wrapper, ...rest] = descriptor;
      return [
        wrapper.replace(
          'class="highlighted"',
          `class="highlighted ${uniqueId}"`
        ),
        ...rest
      ];
    });

    highlightsApi.saveBatch(descriptorsWithIds)
      .then((result) => {
        // Do something with the highlights that have been saved.
      })
      .catch((err) => console.error(err));

    return descriptorsWithIds;
  }

  render = () => {
    // Code that takes the data for the article and adds it to the DOM
    // based on a html template here.
  }
}
```

## Compatibility

Should work in all decent browsers and IE 11.

## Running the tests

First run `npm install` from the root directory of the repo to install all the test runner dependencies.

### Integration tests

The integration tests covers the integration of the larger components that make up the highlighting
functionality such as serialisation + deserialisation, focusing, deselecting, normalisation and interaction with callbacks.

To run the integration tests use the following command:
```bash
npm run test:integration
```

### Unit tests

The unit tests cover functions that make up the smaller components that query, manipulate the DOM
along with pure utility pieces.

To run the unit tests use the following command:
```bash
npm run test:unit
```

### Running the Primitivo tests (The first version of the highlighter)

The first version of the highlighter contains tests in a standalone jasmine runner that runs in the browser.

To run those tests, first set up the server:
```bash
node testserver.js
```

Then go to `http://localhost:5002/test/test.html` and the tests will run on page load.

## Building the API reference documentation

Ensure all dev dependencies are installed using:
```bash
npm install
```

Ensure grunt is installed globally:
```bash
npm install -g grunt
```

To build the documentation, run the following command:
```bash
grunt jsdoc
```

Ensure the test server is running:
```bash
node testserver.js
```

Then go to `http://localhost:5002/doc` to see the API reference for the library.

## Demos

* [Simple demo](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/simple.html)
* [Callbacks](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/callbacks.html)
* [Serialization](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/serialization.html)
* [Serialization (Absolutely positioned elements)](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/serialization-absolute-positioning.html)
* [Iframe](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/iframe.html)

## Documentation
   
You may check [API reference](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/doc/index.html) or 
[Wiki](https://github.com/Perlego/texthighlighter/wiki) pages on GitHub.

Commit message:

Added npm script to run all tests at once and added documentation for running the npm script

README.md, after:

# TextHighlighter

TextHighlighter allows you to highlight text on web pages. Just select it!

## Getting started

### Using the library as an npm package

Install the library by running:

```bash
$ npm install text-highlighter
```

Then you can use it like so:

```javascript
import TextHighlighter from 'text-highlighter';

// Example using a React ref if you are building a react application.
const highlighter = new TextHighlighter(sandboxRef.current);

// Example using an element accessed directly from the DOM.
const highlighter = new TextHighlighter(document.getElementById("sandbox"));
```
#### Supporting IE11

One thing to note when using this library as a package, you are responsible for providing the polyfills
for the core JavaScript features outlined in the latest ECMAScript specifications.

Within this library we use features such as Array.prototype.includes and Array.prototype.find
which aren't support by IE11 without polyfills.

You will need to install core-js and regenerator-runtime.

```bash
npm install --save core-js regenerator-runtime
```

You can add the following two lines at the *BEGINNING* of your application's entrypoint file (index.js or main.js):
```javascript
import "core-js/stable";
import "regenerator-runtime/runtime";
```

### Using the library as a script file

Clone down this repository, checkout to the release tag representing the version you would like to use. 
(2.x.x + only, this won't work for 1.x.x, please refer to the documentation provided with 1.x.x releases)

Ensure grunt is installed globally:
```bash
npm install -g grunt
```

Build the minified version of the library using the following command:
```bash
grunt build
```

Copy the script file from `build/prod/TextHighlighter.min.js` to the head section of your web page:

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="TextHighlighter.min.js"></script>
```

And use it!

```javascript
var hltr = new TextHighlighter(document.body);
```

## Features

* Highlighting of selected text.
* Highlighting all occurrences of given text (find & highlight).
* Removing highlights.
* Selecting highlight color.
* Serialization & deserialization.
* Focusing & deselecting overlapping highlights.
* Works well in iframes.
* Keeps DOM clean.
* No dependencies (apart from core-js and regenerator-runtime for IE11). No jQuery or other libraries needed.

## Using the library

You can find the [API reference here](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/doc/index.html)
which details the interface for the highlighter and the utility functionality that you could also make use
of in your project.

### Simple example

```javascript
import TextHighlighter from 'text-highlighter';
import { isDuplicate } from './utils'; 
import highlightsApi from './services/highlights-api';

class ArticleView {
  constructor(data) {
    this.data = data;
    const pageElement = document.getElementById("article");
    this.highlighter = new TextHighlighter(
      pageElement, 
      {
        version: "independencia",
        onBeforeHighlight: this.onBeforeHighlight,
        onAfterHighlight: this.onAfterHighlight,
        onRemoveHighlight: this.onRemoveHighlight
    });
  }

  onBeforeHighlight = (range) => {
    return !isDuplicate(range)
  }

  onRemoveHighlight = (highlightElement) => {
    const proceed = window.confirm("Are you sure you want to remove this highlight?");
    return proceed;
  }

  onAfterHighlight = (range, descriptors, timestamp) => {
    // Add an ID to the class list to identify each highlight 
    // (A highlight can be represented by a group of elements in the DOM).
    const uniqueId = `hlt-${Math.random()
      .toString(36)
      .substring(2, 15) +
      Math.random()
      .toString(36)
      .substring(2, 15)}`;
    
    const descriptorsWithIds = descriptors.map(descriptor => {
      const [wrapper, ...rest] = descriptor;
      return [
        wrapper.replace(
          'class="highlighted"',
          `class="highlighted ${uniqueId}"`
        ),
        ...rest
      ];
    });

    highlightsApi.saveBatch(descriptorsWithIds)
      .then((result) => {
        // Do something with the highlights that have been saved.
      })
      .catch((err) => console.error(err));

    return descriptorsWithIds;
  }

  render = () => {
    // Code that takes the data for the article and adds it to the DOM
    // based on a html template here.
  }
}
```

## Compatibility

Should work in all decent browsers and IE 11.

## Running the tests

First run `npm install` from the root directory of the repo to install all the test runner dependencies.

To run both integration and unit tests at once use the following:

```bash
npm run test:all
```

### Integration tests

The integration tests covers the integration of the larger components that make up the highlighting
functionality such as serialisation + deserialisation, focusing, deselecting, normalisation and interaction with callbacks.

To run the integration tests use the following command:
```bash
npm run test:integration
```

### Unit tests

The unit tests cover functions that make up the smaller components that query, manipulate the DOM
along with pure utility pieces.

To run the unit tests use the following command:
```bash
npm run test:unit
```

### Running the Primitivo tests (The first version of the highlighter)

The first version of the highlighter contains tests in a standalone jasmine runner that runs in the browser.

To run those tests, first set up the server:
```bash
node testserver.js
```

Then go to `http://localhost:5002/test/test.html` and the tests will run on page load.

## Building the API reference documentation

Ensure all dev dependencies are installed using:
```bash
npm install
```

Ensure grunt is installed globally:
```bash
npm install -g grunt
```

To build the documentation, run the following command:
```bash
grunt jsdoc
```

Ensure the test server is running:
```bash
node testserver.js
```

Then go to `http://localhost:5002/doc` to see the API reference for the library.

## Demos

* [Simple demo](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/simple.html)
* [Callbacks](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/callbacks.html)
* [Serialization](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/serialization.html)
* [Serialization (Absolutely positioned elements)](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/serialization-absolute-positioning.html)
* [Iframe](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/demos/iframe.html)

## Documentation
   
You may check [API reference](http://perlego.github.io/texthighlighter/doc/index.html) or 
[Wiki](https://github.com/Perlego/texthighlighter/wiki) pages on GitHub.
